Document Affinity & CloudEP (#14137)
microsoft/onnxruntime: docs/execution-providers/Cloud-ExecutionProvider.md

---
title: Cloud
description: Instructions to infer an ONNX model remotely with a cloud endpoint
parent: Execution Providers
nav_order: 12
redirect_from: /docs/reference/execution-providers/Cloud-ExecutionProvider
---

> # Cloud Execution Provider

Reviewer: Better to mention Preview in parentheses here.

Author: Done.

> The Cloud Execution Provider enables ONNX Runtime to invoke a cloud endpoint for inferenece, the endpoint must be deployed beforehand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud Execution Provider enables ONNX Runtime to inference a model in the cloud. The model needs to be deployed to the cloud before using ORT.
```

Reviewer: Also, please explicitly mention the use case (small/big model) this preview is targeting.

Author: Added small-big model case.

Cloud Execution Provider is in preview stage, all API(s) and usage are subjuct to change.

## Contents

> To consume the endpoint, ONNX Runtime must load the same model locally, customer could then use configured run options to choose to go remote.

Reviewer: "same model" is misleading. We need to expand this by mentioning the use case being targeted in this preview.

Author: Corrected.

> By far, Cloud Execution Provider is limited to:

Author: Corrected, thanks!

* only support [triton](https://github.com/triton-inference-server) server on [AML](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/how-to-deploy-with-triton?tabs=python%2Cendpoint).

> * only build and run on Windows and Linux.

Reviewer: Also, only available as a Python pkg.
Also, this section should be titled ```Limitations (Preview)```

Author: Done.
